Mr. Boghossian welcome back. Good to see you again, sir, to be here.
Thank Mr. Lindsay. Good to James or Jim, depending upon preferences.
That's right. Go with Jim. Uh, Jeff, first of all, gentlemen,
and th there was one other person that you did this with this whole project,
Helen.
Pluck rose from England. Uh, shout out to Helen from England.
She back across the pond. She's across the pond to fish and chips and she's.
Making tea and managerial magazine.
That's right. Excellent. All right. Well, shout out to her as well. Um,
let's explain what you guys did and what's so significant about it because,
uh, when I first read it, my first inclination that I,
I had two reactions, one was a huge laugh.
I laughed really hard. And then I said, thank God, so many exposed this.
Yup. So tell me, tell me what you guys did, Jim go for it. Yeah.
So let's explain who you guys are, what you do. Okay.
Um, my background is in mathematics. I bailed out in academia in 2010 though,
because I kind of see the writing on the wall. And, uh,
so now I am a Renegade gender scholar, and I write nonsense about genitals.
That's primarily what I do. I mean, I manage a business at home,
so I got to academia.
Yeah. And I'm, uh, uh, teach philosophy at Portland state university. And, uh,
I met Jim years ago.
We collaborated and we've written a number of things over the years.
And at some point it just came to be, we had to do something about this.
It was just too ridiculous. And it was translating into the real world.
And so we collaborated and here we are.
Well, let's explain what you did and what was ridiculous. Um,
what we're talking about,
what was ridiculous is there's many fields of
studies, um,
that you can get legitimate degrees in that are absolutely preposterous. Right?
Literally filled with nonsense,
taught by nonsense people who live in these nonsense bubbles. Right.
And then they give these degrees and these people go out in the real world and
they infect things. They in their ridiculousness, in fact,
certain particularly tech industry businesses. Like you,
you see it in the morning, James. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
it's explained what you guys did.
Yeah. So we started about a year, I guess, a year and a half ago.
Now it was last summer.
We started writing a bunch of academic papers for the journals that represent
these fields.
And so everybody understands what an academic paper is getting out of the gate.
This isn't like an op ed that you dash off for like Washington post or some
magazine or whatever.
This is a thing like academics work their careers to write
one or two of these a year. And so they're really hard to write.
They're supposed to be hard to get published.
So we were at 20 of them in 10 months
and, uh, seven of those got accepted. Four were actually published.
And um,
then we got at least four more know we got busted in at least four more we're on
track, maybe five or six more would have gotten in.
What's the difference between getting accepted and getting published.
So the process with everything in academia is really slow.
And a lot of people don't know this. So you send off this article,
the editor looks at it and the editor either gives it the thumbs up or the
thumbs down. If they give it the thumbs up, it goes off to peer reviewers.
And that process takes months often, as long as, I mean,
we had one paper that was eight months under peer review.
So the reviewers look at it. They try to figure out if the arguments are good,
they try to figure out if the research is good,
they evaluate that they give extensive comments, they send it back to you.
Then you have to revise it according to whatever they say,
make it better is what's supposed to happen. They made ours crazier.
And so then they did every single time we took the feedback.
And made the papers just the most extreme, most extreme.
Things. And so then you send them back. So now you're probably three,
four months in just the review process, not to the writing,
which should also take months. Yeah.
And then the editor will either send it back to the reviewers to see if it was
good enough or they'll just evaluate it themselves depending on where it stands.
And then they'll make a decision as to whether or not to accept it or reject it
or ask for more revisions. And then when they accept it,
that means the journal is ready to publish it.
But then the publishing process requires all the type setting, proofing,
all the stuff that goes into making it professional for an academic journal.
And that can take months.
And, and, and publishing is the coin of the realm. Like that's it.
So the ideal is one paper every year in the humanities broadly.
So if you that's how you credential yourself, that's how you get tenure,
which is a job for life. That's how you get to teach people, these ideas,
who then, as you said, go out into the workforce, you know, five,
six years later and infect everybody with total silliness.
So it's the gold standard peer review.
So we saw a tremendous problem.
Can we tell people some of the titles of these charter,
because right now they're like, what the hell is? This was hard.
So we had a article,
the one that got the most press was about dog humping in Portland, Oregon. Um,
it was called how did it go as it called, um, performativity.
And, uh, was it rape culture,
rape culture and performativity in dog parks in Portland, Oregon.
We claim to have examined under a fake name is all fake names, performativity.
Oh yeah, totally have their own lingo, their own, you know.
But is that a word in the English language, performance.
Activity? I mean, in the academic English language, not in karma,
common parlance, but that's like the whole thing. This is huge, right?
This goes back a long way.
That's Judith Butler's whole thing was that gender's uniformed Butler.
Judith Butler is probably the most influential feminist scholar or gender
scholar. Actually. I should say that that's been in maybe the last 30 years.
She's she's big time. And so she had this whole thing.
That gender is performative. It's something you perform.
It's not something that's anything.
To do with your biology articles.
Reactions to rape culture and performativity at urban dog parks in
Portland, Oregon. Why is it retracted?
Because it's because they realized bogus were hosing them.
We reactions to rape culture and performance.
Seemed to have closely examined the genitals of.
Just under 10,000, just under.
A 10,000 dogs.
And then interrogated their owners as to their sexual orientation.
I felt the dog's nuts and then said, excuse me, sir, are you gay? Yeah.
And you said, that's what I'm, if they gendered their dogs.
Well, made up these totally insane, you know, dogs,
humping incidents and how they, they beat female dogs,
but they didn't beat male dogs. So that's one of the papers that we made,
you know, the other paper.
That, well, this one also, they had the whole thing,
like if a male dog humps another male dog,
especially men would freak out and break it up,
stop that because that's the performativity part. Yeah.
But then if a male dog humped a female dog, they'd be like, you know,
get her girl, get her, get her, you know, get.
On it. You're basically raging against hetero normativity.
Exactly. Correct. We told them exactly what they wanted to hear. Yeah.
And we gave them bogus statistics to fuel what they already want.
Yeah.
We started off with the idea that what we wanted to get to was a conclusion.
And then we made up all the crap in between to get to it.
And the conclusion was feminism should train men the way we train dogs so that
we can get rid of rape, you know, put.
Them on leashes, you know, it's right in the paper, it's all there.
Unfortunately, we cannot put men on Alicia.
It's not politically feasible to put men on leashes. You guys wrote.
That. Yeah. Yeah. If their leashes.
When they misbehave and this paper didn't just get published.
The journal said that this was exemplary scholarship and gave it an award.
Oh my God. So it was one of the best pieces. This.
Year is the 25th anniversary. So this journal.
Has been doing this for 25 years and it's their 25th anniversary.
So they're picking out the best papers out the whole year and putting them you
prior to place in some,
some issue of their journal and ours was going to be in the seventh issue was.
Weighted. Number one is greater. It's not great. So it's, it either is greater.
It's not great. Like why they retracting.
It. Oh yeah. Because they know we were bogus. So what.
You were right. Well.
It's like a broken clock. The clock's broken when it is actually 12 o'clock.
So, so they, they would claim it incorrectly.
That we fabricated statistics. But we,
we wrote other papers called one was fat bodybuilding.
So they claimed that there should be a category introduced in traditional body
building called fat bodybuilding,
where people come and display their fat before the audience.
And we didn't manufacture any statistics for that. And they loved that.
They thought it, you know,
one line in that paper was a fat body is a built body.
Right. The reviewers, like.
I wholeheartedly agree.
That.
Yeah. And then we wrote other papers, like to high, we publish, uh, uh, uh,
got accepted, not published, but that one, we claim that it's, uh,
it's unexpected. [inaudible].
It's on, it's unethical to make fun of anything to do with social justice.
Right.
And so if you want to make fun of things that don't have anything with social
justice, that's good. So if we wanted to make fun of men, that's great.
If you want to make fun of white people, that's great.
If you want to make fun of, uh, anything to do with social justice,
that's a problem. So we made, we said that, you know, south,
Park's a huge problem. The Simpsons is a huge problem.
We went into talking about how Stephen Colbert and John Stewart have the right
idea. But then the journal was like, ah, but they're straight white males.
So you have to, you know,
nuance around that to make it clear that their position is white men.
Even though they're on the side of social justice, it's not quite good enough,
you know?
Oh. So they publish that. They post that they published,
what was that one called?
That one was called when the jokes on you. Yeah. And.
We made, we wrote it to that. They would think.
The joke is on us because we cited our own work in there. Right.
But the joke was actually on them for publishing it. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Th this it's so it's so funny how racist you can be,
as long as you're racist. Again, it's white people.
That's what we saw is that as long as you are going up the river against
privileged, then you can really just get away with some nasty.
Stuff and you can generalize. Oh, totally gross.
Generalizations, not treat people as individuals. Absolutely.
It's very strange. It's very strange that this is the left. You know,
I was a kid in San Francisco in the 1970s. Uh,
we lived in, you know,
like there was the hippie times and that's, I,
I lived there from age seven to 11 and it kind of formed a lot
of my opinions about people like the, who gives a part of my, my,
my appreciation for any group, whatever it is,
whether it's race or gender or sexual orientation. And I just,
I don't understand it from either way.
I certainly don't understand it from a racist perspective,
but I really don't understand it from racism.
That's condoned because it's racism against white people. Oh yeah.
This is the left. This is that these are,
these are the people that are preaching against hate.
And these are the people that used to be the people that were supposedly.
So open-minded, and so open to ideas.
And now they're trying to stifle creativity and stifle dissent and
stifle, stifle. Anything that doesn't fit inside.
That very narrow paradigm. They're trying to push very strange.
Now they co-opted the civil rights movement.
The good name of the civil rights movement is kind of the brand that they ride
on. You know, they're fighting against racism, they're fighting against sexism,
misogyny, et cetera. And the thing is,
is that's not really what's going on here. They've actually tapped into this to,
to throw around the term. This post-modern notion,
everything in society has to do with power dynamics and the power dynamics have
to be understood in terms of groups and how those groups have traditionally held
power and exercise power.
And so immediately it becomes stuck in this idea that it's all about this group
or that group and how they relate to one another. And I don't mean like, Hey,
let's get along really.
I mean like white people are imagined to always be over black people.
And therefore, you know, there's always this natural power dynamic of, of,
of oppressor versus oppressed.
And this is stuff that came straight out of this weird postmodern philosophy
where you saw these dissatisfied French philosophers in the sixties,
you know, all in this, all this stuff you were talking about was going down. Um,
they saw this stuff and they said, wow, you know, okay,
power dynamics are the thing, because I should go back a step. The,
the postmodern philosophers like Fuko and all of this got all hooked up on power
because they were just satisfied with seeing what they called grand narratives,
Christianity, uh, capitalism, Marxism.
They saw all these huge, you know,
explanations for how the world works and said, you know, they're not working.
Look how bad communism failed. Look how there's so much, you know,
coming out of this or that from religion, it's not working.
We need to just get rid of all of it. We're going to deconstruct this.
We're going to break it down to its power dynamics.
And then we're going to look at it in terms of who has master hood over,
over who who's oppressing, what where's dominance. And it's just kind of grown.
It got picked up in the, in the academic culture, in the 1960s.
That's how old this stuff is.
And then it took this huge turn in the 1990s and got really vicious.
And that's where it really got, you know, that's when it turned intersectional,
actually.
That was during the political correct days. That's.
It's when the political correct thing kind of blew up. Yeah.
Was when all this stuff was coming out. So that would have been, you know,
late 1980s is really when all of this political correctness stuff started
coming out of the academy. And then a few years later,
you see it coming all over politics, which typically what happens.
It starts in the academy a few years later,
it leaks into the culture and politics or media or the tech sector. Now,
whatever it happens to be.
The stifling of creativity is the most disturbing part about it. Like the,
like the, the agreement that south park and the Simpsons are a real problem.
It's so bizarre because like, here's the thing.
If they miss the mark and it's not funny, it won't work.
And then it'll be a bad show and no one would like it. But if it's funny,
there has to be something about it that people find ironic
satirical. There has to be something about it that people are enjoying.
It has to point to some truth and the denial of this.
And instead like the saying, oh,
it's white males that are causing this problem and you shouldn't attack this or
that. Or, you know,
that there's subjects that are off limits and social justice should never be
attacked. Like the two agree to that.
It's so it's so preposterous. This is life we're talking about.
This is literally the nuance of life,
all the various strange things in the spectrum of human behavior
and, and all the things you encounter in life and to segment and limit what
is, and is not what's off limits.
It's not off limits based on race,
based on things that a person can't control at all. You're just born white.
So if you're born white, you're born and oppressor, right.
You're born a victimizer. And if you're a white male, you're a piece of.
And you can say that white hetero male in particular, God, I mean,
I've seen so many tweets from people that means so many virtue signaling tweets,
but one of my favorite ones is this feminist who said all white, a white,
straight men are trash unless proven otherwise. Yeah. That's a thing.
All of us, all of us,
50 million of us.
Have been give or take, you know, how many gay folks there are trash. Yeah.
Trash.
No problem. Proven. It's proven. Otherwise, if you're not right,
how do you do that? That's like, you have to be an ally.
They asked us to problematize allyship to you see there's power dynamics.
Once you say, Hey, I'm an ally.
Now you've made it so that you have like a shield where people can't call you a
white supremacist anymore.
And you are acting on behalf of other people in, you know,
you're speaking for them.
So you now have assumed power that was reproducing the same power dynamics.
That was the mind comp paper that rewrote my income actually.
Was about allyship. And they were like, you didn't problematize Ellen.
Yeah. We had two, two of them that did mountain comp.
One of them,
we just more or less replaced whites would replace Jews with white men.
And you, I.
Literally took mine comp the actual words from mine comp and put it
in this paper and replaced the word Jews with the word white men.
And they accepted.
Them. We had two papers that did mine comprehend. So that one did not get.
Do the quotes that you guys use.
I mean, so with that one,
what we did was we took the whole document on online and we just
searched the word Jew and we just started picking sentences and paragraphs.
So what was it that at the end, it was something like,
if we don't combat whiteness, it's going to be the funeral wreath for mankind.
That's straight.
Out now. They didn't.
Yeah, they didn't, they didn't accept that paper though, because that paper, uh,
turns out,
was written from the perspective of a white lesbian who hated her on whiteness.
And they said that it was positioning her as a good white,
and because she's making herself out as a good white, again, allyship isn't,
as all it's cracked up to be, she, you know, was making a problem.
She should have really been forwarding the ideas of the black scholars that she
read way more and not talking about herself so much,
even though it was a paper designed to be talking about. Yeah,
because that was what Hitler did. So that's what we had to do.
Now. The other mind comp paper was about feminism.
And what we did was we took the chapter it's chapter 12.
We took the chapter where he says,
this is why we should have the Nazi party and what is expected of people who are
going to be part of it. And we took out our movement or party.
He didn't call it a Nazi party in the chapter, but everywhere.
He's like our movement took that out,
put in intersectional feminism and then modified the words and added theory
around it so that it would fly. And.
Your theory, that's what they call it. I love that word theory. I love when.
Feminist theory, I love when they throw that around. Like, what are you saying?
But you're saying things that like, once you say that you're, you're good.
Like you've said, you can say something ridiculous and then say feminist theory.
And they're like, oh, it's in feminist theory. That's the thing.
Right. Is so much of the stuff they come up with.
Let me throw them on all of branch.
Like so much of the stuff they come up with is a creative idea.
Maybe there's something to some of this stuff. Right.
But what they're putting forward is hypothesis.
And then they're treating them as conclusions.
So they're putting forward this idea. I saw one on Twitter today.
It was something like there's about south park,
how it's been laundering racism into society and making everybody comfortable
with racism. And that's why everything is so racist and people are shooting.
Jews is because south park made it normal that they're treating that as a
conclusion, but that's a hypothesis, right? So we could test that.
It's conceivable that you could actually try to parse out what variables need to
be controlled. See, you know, south park came out,
it started doing these themes. What, how does it track?
Statisticians can do kind of amazing things with that stuff,
but they're not doing that. They're not testing it instead of testing it,
they're concluding it. And they're using theory to do so. And they're go, oh no,
it's even bigger than that because why don't they test it? Well,
if they tested it and this is, I'm not making this up, you won't believe me,
but this is true.
If they tested it and the test showed that their hypothesis was wrong,
they would say that the test was racist, but the test is condoning racism.
And that's why it didn't give them the desired result. How.
Would you test something like, cause I mean, I'm.
Not a statistician. I actually am a mathematician, but I'm not a statistician.
They're two different things. So I'm not exactly sure how you would test that.
But conceivably you could gather data,
survey data and see how attitudes have changed.
Maybe you could track kinds of articles, kinds of events that are coming out.
You could kind of pair that up with, what's been shown on south park who are.
At south park and track that with attitudes. I mean, yeah, but they're not.
There's no effort to do this. They're like, oh, south park presents these ideas,
which they then cherry pick.
Cause there's other ideas that they don't talk about. Their point,
the other direction, these ideas are problematic. That's the big word,
theoretically, that's a problem. Why? Because they, and I'm not joking.
They literally believe that use of language creates the power dynamics that
define society.
So south Park's using language and imagery that creates a power dynamic that
makes people more comfortable being racist. Boom theory done.
No tests needed no even attempt to test. And then if the test happened,
the test itself will be racist unless it confirmed the hip-hop right.
So they start with an agenda. And then you mentioned the word laundry,
which could your former guest, Brett and Heather talked about, uh,
ideal laundry. I think that's important for the listeners.
So what's, that's what really what's going on here is, um,
they're forwarding these hypotheses. They treat,
they don't treat them as hypotheses and they write up a paper paper,
like we were saying is the absolute gold standard of academic work.
They send the paper off the reviewers in our case has made our papers crazier
every single time. So they push it further into the ideology or the madness.
How does the reviewer.
Do something like that? What, what input do they get to have?
They said, for example, that we should problematize allyship. If we're gonna,
if we want our paper published, we've got a problem with, I love that word.
Problematize, everything. So everything.
Problematize, everything, dog parks, problem.
Problem with literally anything.
Can be problematized and looked at through a feminist.
Lens. Does everything the whole world.
To up their tool. That's why we call it grievance studies.
Grievance is there they're massively. Okay. So then, but the, do the homo,
the transphobia. Yeah, the trans paper.
So we wrote this paper,
the saying that straight men are generally transphobic,
meaning in particular, the, their kind of niche,
weird definition that you see on the internet and activist sometimes that they
aren't interested in having sex with trans people who have penises trans women
who have a penis in particular. And so we said, well,
that's a kind of transphobia.
And clearly the reason that they might be transphobic is because they don't
practice putting things in their butts.
So if they start putting stuff up their butts in particular, we call the paper.
So you can imagine what we were saying that you put up the paper was called. No,
that was the, that was the nickname we gave her.
The paper was called going into the back door.
Wheeling. Really?
Yeah. Going in through the back door.
There's a lot of technical words that would get published.
Online. So we argued that, that, uh, if straight men.
Just penetrated themselves and had their girlfriends,
peg them through exposure therapy, you know,
you start small and then work your way up. You can remediate transphobia. Yeah.
We'll make them less transphobic. So as a result,
self penetrating or having your girlfriend, Peggy, you,
you can be less transphobic. And they thought this is the greatest.
So we based this off the.
Interviews, really 13 interviews, but with men and I say really a 13,
there were 13 interviews documented, but five of them were gay people,
not even straight people. So they don't really apply.
So then we have these eight interviews with straight men.
We made one of them a conservative. And he's just so we could just put in like,
you know, crazy things that a conservative might say about this.
And they were like,
why don't why weren't there more conservatives participating. So I was like,
well, I'm gonna run with this.
And I was, I wrote this whole thing.
We invited six conservatives to participate.
And only one accepted and to kind of summarize why in the world.
And this is in the paper, in the words of one,
I don't want to be a part of some stupid liberal study about shoving things up
your butt. And they published.
It. Boom. Right, right. Oh my God. Oh,
so we wrote this.
Retracted article. Yep.
Going in through the back door right there. Oh my God. Now,
did they contact you after they were tracked your article? They go, Hey,
you guys are. You are wasting our time.
We spent hours reviewing your papers.
A couple of pretty bitter responses, but mostly, no,
mostly they've kind of put their head in the sand and kind of avoided talking to
us.